EC2
- Provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud
- Scale capacity as your computing requirements change
- Pay only for the capacity that you actually use

EC2 Options
- On demand: Pay a fixed rate by the hour (By the second for linux servers)
	- Low cost and flexibility without any up-front payment or long-term commitment
	- Apps with short term, spiky or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
	- Apps being developed or tested on EC2
- Reserved: Provide you a capacity reservation, and offer a discount. (1 Year or 3 year term)
	- Apps with steady state or predictable usage
	- Apps that required reserved capacity
	- Users able to make up-front payments to reduce their total computing costs even further
		- Standard reserved instances
		- Convertible
		- Scheduled
- Spot: Allows you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity. (If the price goes below your bid price, then your instances are terminated)
	- Apps that have flexible start and end times
	- Apps that are only feasible at very low costs
	- Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity
	- **Important**: If you terminate the instance, you pay for the hour. If AWS terminates the spot instance, you get the hour it was terminated for free.
- Dedicated Hosts: Physical EC2 servers dedicated.
	- Useful for regulatory reqs that may not support multi-tenant virtualization
	- Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments
	- Can be purchased On-Demand (Hourly)
	- Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the on-demand price

EC2 Instance Types
D - Density
R - Ram
M - Main choice for general purpose apps
C - Compute
G - Graphics
I - IOPS
F - FPGA
T - cheap general purpose
P - Graphics
X - Extreme memory

EBS
- Allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to your EC2 instance.
- EBS Volumes are “block device” storage <> object device (S3)
- They are placed in a specific Availability zone, where they are automatically replicated.
- You cannot mount 1 EBS volume to multiple EC2 instances, instead use EFS

EBS Volume Types
General Purpose SSD (GP2)
- Balances both price and performance
- Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,1000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above

Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1)
- Designated fo I/O intensive apps such as large relational or noSQL
- Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS
- Can provision up to 20,000 IOPS per volume

Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1)
- Big Data
- Data warehouses
- Log processing 
- Sequence data
- Cannot be boot volumes

Cold HDD (SC1)
- Lowest cost storage for infrequent access
- File Server
- Cannot be boot volume

Magnetic (Standard)
- Lowest cost per GB of all EBS bootable volumes.
- Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and apps where cost storage is important

