## EC2 Elastic compute

Web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.  
Reduces the time required to obtain and boot new services instances to minutes. 
Allows quickly scale capacity up and down, as your computing requirements change.
Only pay for the capacity that you actually use. 
Provides developers tools for build failure resilient application and isolate themselves from common failure scenarios.

Windows - linux

Startups AirBnB and Uber. Experiment for a very low cost. 


## EC2 options
On demand - allow you to pay a fixed rate by the hour or by the second with no commitment.
Reserved - provide you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 1 year or 3 year terms.
Spot - enable you to bid water price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times. Terminated or stop
Dedicated hosts - physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated host can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.

### On demand 
 - Low costs and flexibly on front term. 
 - Short term.
 - Develop or tested in the first time.

### Reserved (Instance attributes, term commitment, payment option) Workload is predictable
 - Steady state or predictable usage.
 - Require a reserved capacity.
 - Able to make upfront payments to reduce their total computing costs 

### Standard
Convertible RI’s Reserve instances 
Scheduled RI’s available to launch within.
Instance attributes
Instance type m3.xlarge
Availability zone
Tenancy platform
Term commitment 
1 years 
3 years
Pay upfront 
Payment option
If you don’t need it, be a third party seller in the instance marketplace
Save about 75%
All sold by AWS or third party sellers at lower cost

#### Spot
 - That have flexible start and end times.
 - That are only feasible at very low compute prices.
 - Big data processing 
 - Sunday 3am when prices are very low
 - Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity
 - Benefits
    - EC2 instances at savings of up to 90% the on-demand price


### Dedicated hosts
 - Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
 - Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
 - Can be purchased on-demand hourly
 - Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the on-demand price.

M4 default use
T2 will be used all the course, low price small db services
P2 Bitcoin mining

DR MC GIFT PX

## EBS Elastic block store

Allow you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of those volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device. Amazon EBS volumes are placed in a specific availability zone, where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component. 

## EBS volume types

### General purpose SSD (GP2)
 - General purpose, balances both price and performance.  
 - Ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods of time for volumes at 3334 GiB and above. 

### Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1)
 - Designed for I/O intensive applications such as large relational or NoSQL databases.
 - Use if you need more than 10,000 IOPS
 - Can provision up to 20,000 IOPS per volume
 - Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1) magnetic
 - Big data
 - Data warehouses
 - Log processing
 - Cannot be a boot volume 

### Cold HDD (SC1)
 - Lowest cost storage for infrequently accessed workloads.
 - File server
 - Magnetic standard
 - Lowest cost per gigabyte of all BS volume types that is bootable. Magnetic volumes are ideal for workloads where data is accessed infrequently, and applications where the lowest storage cost is important.


### EC2 exam tips
Know the differences between
 - On demand
 - Spot
 - Reserved
 - Dedicated hosts
 - Cases that you need to calculate how much do you need to pay for an instance

### Remember with spot instances
 - If you terminate the instance, you pay for the hour
 - If AWS terminates the spot instances, you get the hour it was terminated in for free.
 - EBS.

### EBS consists of:
 - SSD, General purpose - GP2 - (Up to 10,000 IOPS)
 - SSD, Provisioned IOPS - IO1 - (More than 10,000 IOPS)
 - HDD, Throughput Optimized - ST1 - frequently accessed workloads.
 - HDD, Cold - SC1 - less frequently accessed data.
 - HDD, Magnetic - Standard - cheap, infrequently accessed storage.


You cannot mount 1 EBS volume to multiple EC2 instances, instead use EFS

What happens if you delete an EC2 instance?, what happens to the EBS volumen that is attached to that?

Tags help us to control costs, tag everything


### Lab summary 
- Termination protection is turned off by default, you must turn it on during the setup.

EBS-backed instance the default root mount is deleted when the instance is terminated. Cannot be encrypted. Third party tools to encrypt and create a copy encrypted the volume.

### Security group is a visual firewall

 - Instance can have multiple security groups
 - Immediately after changing a security rule.
 - All inbound traffic is blocked by default
 - All outbound traffic is allowed
 - Changes to security groups take effect immediately
 - You can have any number of EC2 instances within a security group
 - You can have multiple security group attached to EC2 instances
 - Security groups are stateful 
 - if you create an inbound rule allowing traffic in, that traffic is automatically allowed back out again.
 - You cannot block specific ip addresses using security groups, instead use network access to control lists
 - You can allow rules but not denied rules. 


### EBS volumes

 - EC2 and EBS need to be in the same zone cannot be mixed
 - Modifying volume won’t have down time, only performance issues
 - The only way to move volume to another availability zone is to create an snapshot and then copy a volume
 - Volumes exist on EBS
 - Snapshots exist on S3
 - Snapshots are point in time copies of volumes 
 - Snapshot are incremental - this means that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3
 - If this is your first snapshot it will take time to create

### Snapshots of root device volumes
 - To create a snapshot for Amazon EBS volumes that serve as root devices, you should stop the instance before taking the snapshot.
 - However you can take a snap while the instance is running.
 - You can create AMI’s (Amazon Machine Images) from both volumes and snapshots.
 - You can change EBS volume sized on the fly, including changing the size and storage type.
 - Volumes will always be in the same availability zone as the EC2 instance.
 - To move an EC2 volume from one AZ/Region to another, take a snap or an image of it, then copy it to the new AZ/region
 - Snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically
 - Volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically
 - You can share snapshots, but only if they are unencrypted
 - these snapshots can be shared with other AWS accounts or made public.

### EFS (Elastic file system) lab is not in the exam yet 
Understand it before taking the exam. 
Is a file storage service for Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances. Is easy to use and provides a simple interface that allows you to create and configure file systems quickly and easily. With Amazon EFS, storage capacity is elastic, growing and shrinking automatically as you add and remove files, so your applications have the storage they need, when they need it. 

### EFS Features 
 - Supports the network file system version 4 (NFSv4) protocol
 - You only pay for the storage you use (No pre-provisioning required )$0.30 per giga 
 - Can scale up to the petabytes
 - Can support thousands of concurrent NFSconnections 
 - Data is stored across multiple AZ’s within a region
 - Read After Write Consistency
 - Load balancer, mount EFS between 2 
 - Only supported in west oregon

AWS CLI (Command Line)

Using credentials

You can access your AWS from a command line, for example the Mac’s command line by using the ssh command. The next example allows you to use your EC2 instance from the command line:
		ssh user@ec2.public.ip.adreess -i yourCredencials.pem

Once you log into the EC2 instance you can elevate your privileges using the command: 

		sudo su

At this point you will be able to use the AWS CLI just type aws + the service you want to use + commands associated with that service, for example you can see your buckets stored on the S3 service by using this command:

		aws s3 ls

If you get a a message saying that it can’t locate your credentials, you have to configure them using this command:

		aws configure

Now the aws will guide you on what fields you need to provide in order to store your credentials. Those credentials need to be valid and active ones related to the user and region you want to get access to AWS CLI. The fields are:

AWS Access Key (User) 
AWS Secret Access Key (User)
Region (your region)
Output format (This can be without any value)

You can type the command help to get info about all available commands for a certain service, for example:

		aws s3 help

Let’s use the AWS CLI to terminate an EC2 instance:

Get the instance ID -> aws ec2 describe-instances
Locate your running EC2 and get the InstanceId
Terminate the instance -> aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-ids yourIstanceId
Check the result on the AWS console



Since your credential are being stored in your EC2 instance there’s a risk of someone stole those credential, specially if you have your SSH configured to allow connections. You can see your stored credentials on the .aws file in your home directory:

		cd ~
		cd .aws 
		ls
	
A good practice is to delete the user you use to get into the AWS CLI to be 100% sure that your account is secured.

Using roles

This option allows to use your AWS CLI without leaving your credentials stored into your EC2 instance. This means that your account will be more secure.

Create an EC2 instance. Skip this if you already have one
Create a Role into your instance. You can also attach Roles to your running EC2 instance.  
SSH into your EC2 instance
Use the service you have permission to use on you instance.

As simple and secure as that. It’s a good practice to configure your region on your EC2 instance by using the aws configure command. MAKE SURE TO LEAVE ALL OTHER FIELDS BLANK.

CLI commands for the developers exam

A very useful URL related to the CLI commands is: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/index.html

The main commands you’ll need to learn, for exam purposes, are:

		describe-instances
		describe-images (this can take time to load)
		run-instances (Use this to create EC2 instances)
		terminate-instances (You can terminate one or more instances)

If you need to use those commands with specific parameters, you have to see it on the URL provided above. There’re a lot of useful examples and information there.

S3 CLI and Regions

This subject is only for information purposes, not for exam purposes.

Important thoughts about S3 and regions:

You can create buckets on any region
You can use S3 CLI to download the content of any bucket into your current EC2 instance (sometimes you have to write the region your EC2 instance is, depending on the region where the bucket you’re trying to download is)
To access and download a bucket from the S3 CLI you can use:
		aws s3 cp --recursive s3://bucketName /locationOnTheEC2Instance
		aws s3 cp --recursive s3://bucketName /locationOnTheEC2Instance - -region your-ec2-region

Bash Scripting

This is the way how you can execute several commands at the start of a EC2. You can create the bash when creating the instance on the Step 3 section Advanced Details. You have to start the bash with the line #!/bin/bash

Example to update the EC2 instance, install Apache and start it, check Apache config and download an index.html into the Apache www/html directory:

		#!/bin/bash
		yum update -y
		yum install httpd -y
		service httpd start
		chkconfig httpd on
		aws s3 cp s3://mywebsitebucket/index.html /var/www/html

Installing PHP & Composer

This Lab is very straight forward so just pay attention and understand how the shell file was created.

URL to install Composer: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/guide/getting-started/installation.html

Using PHP SDK to access s3

Another pretty straight forward lab…

EC2 Instance Metadata

This is an important part of the exam. Memorise  the URL: http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/

Useful documentaiion: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html

### ELB (Elastic Load Balancer)
Definitions taken from Internet of Load Balancer:

>A load balancer is a device that acts as a reverse proxy and distributes network or application traffic across a number of servers.

>In computing, load balancing improves the distribution of workloads across multiple computing resources, such as computers, a computer cluster, network links, central processing units, or disk drives.

>Load balancing is a key component of highly-available infrastructures commonly used to improve the performance and reliability of web sites, applications, databases and other services by distributing the workload across multiple servers.

#### Lab

- Create html index
- Create health check
- Create load balancer
- Application Load Balancer (preferred, relative new)
- Classic Load Balancer (all questions on exam)
- People get charges on free tier because they forget to deleted unused ELBs
- HealthCheck settings:
  - Healthy Threshold: The number of consecutive health checks successes required before considering an unhealthy target healthy (2-10).
  - Unhealthy Threshold: The number of consecutive health check failures required before considering a target unhealthy (2-10).
  - Timeout: The amount of time, in seconds, during which no response means a failed health check (2-60 seconds)
  - Interval: The approximate amount of time between health checks of an individual target (5-300 seconds).
  - Success Codes: The HTTP codes to use when checking for a successful response from a target. You can specify multiple values (for example, "200,202") or a range of values (for example, "200-299").
- Register targets: add instance to ELB
- Test simulate error removing health check html: See out of service  message
- Test adding health check html back: InService
- Health checks check the instance health by talking to it
- Once an instance is out of service is taken out of the LB (after the timeout/retry math)
- Opening the ELB dns name in the browser opens the health check web page

There is no public IP address for the ELB. That is managed internally by AWS (it can changed). We should only handled dis name. 

Second part of lab: create application load balancer (not many different from classic ELB)

*Note: One subnet = one availability zone
No contents of the exam

SDK Exam Tips: Gotta know the available SDKs. They can be queried in:
https://aws.amazon.com/tools/

SDK default regions
- Default region: US-EAST-1
 - Some have default regions: Java
 - Some do not: Node.js

### Lambda

Release in ReInvent in 2014
Serverless technology
“Most interesting part of the course”


Brief history of cloud 



All you have to worry is about your code

What is lambda? Encapsulation of: Data centres, hardware, assembly code/protocols, high level languages, OS, Application Layer/AWS Apis, 

> AWS Lambda is a compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. AWS Lambda executes your code only when needed and scales automatically, from a few requests per day to thousands per second. You pay only for the compute time you consume - there is no charge when your code is not running. With AWS Lambda, you can run code for virtually any type of application or backend service - all with zero administration. AWS Lambda runs your code on a high-availability compute infrastructure and performs all of the administration of the compute resources, including server and operating system maintenance, capacity provisioning and automatic scaling, code monitoring and logging. All you need to do is supply your code in one of the languages that AWS Lambda supports (currently Node.js, Java, C#, Go and Python).

> You can use AWS Lambda to run your code in response to events, such as changes to data in an Amazon S3 bucket or an Amazon DynamoDB table; to run your code in response to HTTP requests using Amazon API Gateway; or invoke your code using API calls made using AWS SDKs. With these capabilities, you can use Lambda to easily build data processing triggers for AWS services like Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB process streaming data stored in Kinesis, or create your own back end that operates at AWS scale, performance, and security.

Lambda events can trigger other lambda events
Lambda scales automatically

Scale up vs Scale out (lambda). Scale up: increace resources like memory, CPU, etc. Scale out: add more instances of a service.

Types of lambda triggers:
- API Gateway
- AWS IoT
- Alexa Skills Kit
- Alexa Smart Home
- CloudFront
- CloudWatch Events
- CloudWatch Logs
- CodeCommit
- Cognito Sync Trigger
- DynamoDB
- Kinesis
- S3
- SNS

API Gateway: n http request = n lambdas

How is priced?
- By # of requests: First 1 million requests are free. $0.20 per million after.
- Duration: time your code begins until it finished (rounded up to nearest 100 ms)

Example: Amazon Echo

Exam tips:
- Scales out (not up) automatically
- Independent: 1 event = 1 function
- Serveless
- What services are not serveless: S3, EC2, API Gateway, DynamoDB
- Lambda functions can trigger other functions
- AWS architectures can get complicates. Use AWS X-Ray to debug
- Can do things globally. i.e. use to back up s3 buckets to other s3 buckets
- Know your triggers
- Duration of maximum 5 minutes
- Remember available languages
