***Storage gateway

****Very popular exam topic

Is a service that connects an on-premises software appliance with cloud-base storage to provide seamless and secure integration between an organization’s on-premises IT environment and AWS’s storage infrastructure. The service enables you to securely store data to the was cloud for scalable and cost-effective storage.

AWS storage gateway’s software appliance is available for download as a VM image that you install on a host in your datacenter. Storage gateway supports either VMware ESXi or Microsoft Hyper-V. Once you’ve installed your gateway and associated it with your AWS account through the activation process, you can use the AWS Management console to create the storage gateway option that is right for you.

***Four types of storage gateways 

-File Gateway (NFS) flat files, stored directly in S3
	-pdf
	-videos
Accessed through a NFS mount point. Ownership, permissions, and timestamps are durably stored in S3 in the user-metadata.All the bucket policies: versioning, lifecycle management, cross-region replication apply directly to objects stored in your bucket.

-Volumes Gateway (iSCSI) Block base storage, OS on. VM hard disk, that you have got a VM running on. VM hard disk that even still exclusive. Cannot store flat files.
	-Stored volumes: stores an entire copy of your data set on sites or on premises.
	- Cached volumes: store the most recently sort of access data on your own premise.
and the rest of the data is backed off into Amazon.
	Relevan information 
		- Use iSCSI block protocol. 
		-Asynchronously backed up as point-in-time snapshots. Stored as EBS
		-Snapshot are incremental backups only changed blocks. Are compressed to minimize your storage charges. 

Internet Small Computer System Interface 
Is asynchronously backed up to Amazon Simple Storage Service in the form of Amazon Elastic Block Store snapshots 1GB - 16TB in size for Stored Volumes. 

-Tape Gateway (VTL) gateway which uses video, backup archiving solution. Virtual tapes and send them to S3. NetBackup, Backup Exec, Veam. 

****Cached volumes 
S3 as your primary data storage. Keep the most recent data. 

***Snowball 
-Snowball is a petabyte-scale data transport solution. 80TB snowball in all regions. 
-Snowball edge: 100TB data transfer device. Connects to the existing applications and infrastructure using standard storage interfaces.
-Snowball mobile Truck with petabyte or exabyte levels of data. 10mb connections takes 25 years, 6 months. 
	-video libraries, image repositories, data center migration. 
	-secure, fast and cost effective  

***S3 transfer acceleration
Utilises the CloudFront Edge Network instead of uploading directly to your S3 bucket. Not yet in the developer or architect exam 

*Summary 

**S3
-It’s a place to store plain files, not to store OS or a running DB.
-Files from 0 bytes to 5TB.
-There’s an unlimited storage.
-Universal namespace.

Read after write consistency for PUTS of new objects. Can take time to propagate
Versioning, delete just place a marked… Cannot be disabled, only suspended.  

Cross region replication requires versioning enabled on the source bucket and destination bucket.   

****S3 storage classes/tiers 
-S3 durable, immediately available, frequently accessed 
-S3 IA durable, immediately available, infrequently accessed 
-S3 reduced redundancy storage - easily reproducible, watermark, thumbnails.
-Glacier - Archived data, need to wait 3-5 hours before accessing. 

****Core fundamentals of S3
-Key (name).
-Value (data).
-Version ID.
-Metadata… Data about data.
-Access control list.

****Lifecycle management 
-Can be applied to the current and previous versions. 
-Transition to the Standard-ID storage
-Archive to glacier storage class 30 days after the IA.

***CloudFront 
-Edge location - cached content between regions. There’s at least 50 locations in the world. 
-Origin 
	-S3.
	-EC2.
	-Elastic load balancer or Route53.
-Distribution - this is the name given the CDN which consist of a collection of edge locations.
	-Web distribution used for websites.
	-RTMP for media streaming.

Objects are cached for the live of the TTL (Time To Live) by default it’s 24 hours.
Objects can be cleared but you will be charged. If you don’t want to wait until the TTL expires. 

***Securing your buckets
Make buckets public by using policies, access control list. 
Can be configured to create access logs.

***Encryption
-In transit 
	-SSL/TLS
-At Rest
	 -Server side encryption.
		-S3 managed keys - SSE-S3. Amazon does all the management 
		-AWS key management services, managed keys - SSE-KMS. Benefits as costs, separate permissions for the use, a key that protects your encryption key. Additional permissions to authorized access. 
		-Server side encryption with customer provided keys - SSE-C. You managed the key, and Amazon managed the encryption. 
	-Client side encryption. Upload the encrypted data. 

***File gateway - For flat files, stored directly on S3.
Volume Gateway 
	-Stored volumes - Entire dataset is stored on site. 
	-Cached volumes - Entire dataset is stored on S3 and the most frequently accessed data is cached on site. 
	- Gateway Virtual Tape Library (VTL) used to backup popular applications like netbackup, backup exec, veam.

**Snowball
-Snowball 50TB and now 80TB
-Snowball Edge run lambda functions data center in a box
-Snowball 100PB only in some part in the USA. 

***S3 transfer acceleration 
Is a extra cost for people who are in far away location. Upload to a S3 location 

***S3 static websites 
-serverless
-very cheap, scales automatically
-static only, cannot have a php server, .net. 

***CORS 
-Cross Origin Resource Sharing, share files between buckets. Need to be enabled.

Knows the difference between URLS
Website URL
http://mybucketname.s3-website.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com
Bucket name URL
http://s3.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/mybucketname 

Upload S3 faster by enabling multipart upload.

Read the S3 FAQ before taking the exam.

https://aws.amazon.com/s3/faqs/
