# DNS Fundamentals

- IANA(Internet Assigned Numbers Authority)
- Domain Registrars, e.g. GoDaddy.
- The issue now, ISP's are using IPv4
- NS Record - Name Server Records are used by Top level Domain (.com) servers to direct traffic to the content DNS server which contains the authoritative DNS records.

## A record
The fundamental type of DNS record and the A stands for Address. (naked domain)
Alias record is used to resolve an ELB.

## TTL

The length that a DNS record is cached on either the resolving server or the users
own local PC is equal to the value of the Time To Live.
TTL for migration purposes are set for 2 days.

## CNAME
Canonical Names, can be used to resolve one domain name to another.
e.g you may have a mobile website with another domain for mobile devices.

## Alias records

Alias records are used to map resource record sets in your hosted zone to Elastic Load Balancers, Cloud Front,
or S3.
It maps resource records to another target DNS name (elb1234.elb.amazonaws.com)

Key difference - A CNAME can't be used for naked domain names (zone apex record)
You can't have a CNAME for http://acloud.guru, it must be either an A record or an Alias.

## EXAM TIPS
  ELB does not have ip addresses, all managed by amazon with DNS.
  Understand the difference between Alias Record and CNAME, CNAME has a fee, Alias record does not charge you.
  
# ROUTE53: Routing Policies

- Routing Policies:
  - Simple
  - Weighted
  - Latency
  - Failover
  - Geolocation

## Simple
This is the default routing policy when you create a new record set. Great example, a website.
There's no intelligence on it.
The lab consists in having a load balancer receiving the requests and redirecting depends on policy.
The algorithm is mainly a round robin.

## Weighted
Route53 can play with load on different apps, for instance 20% of my traffic could go to 1 website and 80% to other.
Let you split your traffic based on weights.
Great for A/B testing.
Great example, changing a web site from development to production.

## Latency
Based routing allows you to route your traffic based on the lowest network latency for your end user
(e.g which region will give them the fastest response time)
We create a latency resource record set for the amazon EC2 or ELB in each region that hosts our website.
The resource with the lowest latency will win the request.

## Failover
Failover routing policies are used when you want to create an active/passive set up.
For instance you may want your primary site to be in EU-WEST-2 and your secondary DR Site in AP-SOUTHEAST-2.
Route53 will monitor the health of your primary site using a health check. If the health-check fails
will send the traffic to the other.

## Geolocation
Lets you choose where your traffic will be sent based on the geo location of your users.
Customers in Europe will see prices in Euros or specific language.
Ideally we should match the zone and Elastic Load Balancer and share this.

# Summary
ELBs costs money.
Understand the difference between an Alias Record(ELB, CloudFront) and CNAME.
Given the choice, always choose Alias over CNAME.
