# VPC

Tend to be very similar, networking, security control, sub networking. 

VPC  is known as a virtual data center in the cloud 

- Can be only in one availability zone
- Public subnet 
- Private subnet

## What can you do with a VPC?
- Launch instances into a subnet of your choosing 
- Assign custom IP address ranges in each subnet
- Configure route tables between subnets 
- Create an internet gateway and attach it to our VPC (Only one per VPC, there’s no way to speed up the connection).
- Much better security control over your AWS resources. 
- Instance security groups 
- Subnet network access control lists (ACLS)

## Default VPC vs Custom VPC
- Default VPC is user friendly, allowing you to immediately deploy instances. 
- All subnets in default VPC have a route out to the internet. 
- Each EC2 instance has both a public and private IP address.

## VPC peering 
- Allows you to connect one VPC with another via a direct network route using private IP addresses. 
- Instances behave as if they were on the same private network. 
- You can peer VPC’s with another AWS accounts as well as with other VPCs in the same account. 
- Peering is in a start configuration: ie 1 central VPC peers with 4 others. NO TRANSITIVE PEERING. 

## Exam tips 
- Think of a VPC as a logical datacenter in AWS. 
- Consist of IGWs (Or virtual private gateways)m Route Tables, Network Access Control Lists, Subnets, and Security Groups. 
- 1 Subnet = 1 Availability Zone.
- Security groups are stateful, network access control lists are stateless. 
- NO TRANSITIVE PEERING. 

## When a VPC is created, it will create 
- Route table
- Network ACL 
- Security Group

When creating a subnet, cloud guru recommends a naming convention for the tag name which is network - availability zone.

## Loose 5 ip address 
- The first four IP addresses and the last IP address in each subnet CIDR block are not available. 
- 10.0.0.0 Network address.
- 10.0.0.1 Reserved by AWS for the VPC router.
- 10.0.0.2 Reserved by AWS. The IP address of the DNS server is always the base of the VPC network range plus two.
- 10.0.0.3 Reserved by AWS for future use.
- 10.0.0.255 Network broadcast address. We do not support broadcast in a VPC, therefore we reserve this address.

## NAT instances & Nat Gateways

Each EC2 instance performs source/destination check by defaults. This means that the instance must be the source or destination of any traffic it sends or receives. However, a NAT instance must be able to send and receive traffic when the source or destination is not itself

## Exam tips NAT instances
-  When creating a NAT instance, Disable source/destination check on the instance
- NAT instances must be in a public subnet
- There must be a route out of the private subnet to the NAT instance, in order for this to work.
- The amount of traffic that NAT instances can support depends on the instance size. If you bottlenecking, increase the instance size. 
- You can create high availability using Autoscaling groups, multiple subnets in different AZs, and a script to automate failover.
- Behind a security group.

## Exam tips NAT gateways 
- Preferred by the enterprise. 
- Scale automatically up to 10Gbps.
- No need to patch. 
- Not associated with security groups.
- Automatically assigned a public ip address.
- Remember to update your route tables.
- More secure than a NAT instance.

## Network Access Control List vs Security Groups

- Default NACL created everything is DENIED
- Network ACLs 100 for IPv4 and 101 for IPv6
- Ephemeral port is a short-lived transport protocol port for IP communications

## Exam tips - Network ACLs 
- Your VPC automatically comes a default network ACL, and by default it allows all in/outbound traffic. 
- You can create custom network ACLs. By default is denied until rules are added. 
- Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL.
