Load Balancer and custom VPCs

Go to EC2 - Load Balancers.
If you select a custom VPC for your load balancer it must fulfill the next requirements:
	1. You can only specify 1 subnet per Availability zone
	2. You must specify subnets from at leas 2 Availability zones. These AZ must be public.

VPC flow logs

You can use this feature to capture IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. 
It’s stored on CloudWatch Logs. This logs can be created for VPC, subnet or Network Interface level.

To create a flow log you have to select your VPC and the go to the ‘Actions’ menu then select ‘Create Flow Log’. 
Remember to create a log group on CloudWatch.

Exam tips: 
-You cannot enable flow logs for VPC that are peered with you VPC unless your peer VPC is in your account.
-You cannot tag a flow log.
-You cannot change a flow log configuration after you create it. I.E.: 
You can’t associate a different IAM role with the flow log.
-Not all IP traffic is monitored:
	-Traffic generated by:  -Instances contacting Amazon DNS server.
					      -A Windows instance for Amazon Windows license activation.
					      - Traffic to and from 169.254.169.254, for instance metadata
	-DHCP traffic.
	-Traffic to the reserved IP address for the default VPC router.

NAT vs Bastions

NAT is used to provide Internet traffic to EC2 instances in private subnets.
A Bastion is used to securely administer EC2 instances (SSH or RDP) in private subnets.

VPC endpoints

If you want to get S3 buckets from an instance in a private subnet, you have to use a NAT gateway on your public subnet. 
The problem with this is that you’re using a public endpoint to access S3. 
If you want to access an S3 internally on your private instance, you have to create a VPC endpoint. 

Steps:
Create an EC2 S3 all access role
Go to your EC2 instance and attach that role
Go to your VPC and create a NACL and associate your subnet to your NACL. Be sure that you don’t have any NAT gateway on your VPC’s rout table.
Go to EndPoint and create a new one for S3 type Gateway
Select your VPC and the private subnet
Give full access and hit create
Check the routes of your private rout table, there should be our new endPoint
Log into your EC2 instance via SSH and fetch your S3 buckets

VPC clean up

1. Terminate your EC2 instance
2. Delete endpoints
3. Delete Nat gateways
4. Detach and remove Internet gateways
5. Delete your VPC
